'\" t
.TH ROTATELOG 8 "1.0.0" "Linux" "System Administrator's Manual"

.SH NAME
rotatelogs \- rotates and compresses system logs

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rotatelogs <config dir>

.SH DESCRIPTION

.I rotatelog
is designed to ease administration of systems that generate
large numbers of log files.
It allows automatic rotation, compression, and removal of log files.
.P
<config dir> is usually '/etc/rotatelog.d' and contains some config files.
A config file is a list of files to rotate and optional shell commands.
.P
If no command line arguments are given,
.I rotatelog
will print version and a short usage summary.
.P
Normally,
.I rotatelog
is run as a cron job.  It can be run manually by root user.
The crontab defined the frequency of the rotations.
For example, '/etc/rotatelog.daily' and '/etc/rotatelog.weekly'
can be 2 different <config dir> for 2 cron jobs. 

.SS Format of config file
A config file is a shell script plus special lines beginning with '\-'.
These lines are the list of log files to rotate.
The other lines are optionnal and can be commands to run before and after
the log rotation, or commands to delete old files, etc...

.SS Example for a single log file
.nf
- /var/log/wtmp
.fi

.SS Example '/etc/rotatelog/srv' : config file for the service srv
.nf
# comment
# stop the service
/sbin/sv stop srv
# rotate some log files
\- /var/log/srv/debug.log
#restart service
/sbin/sv start srv
.fi

.SS Example '/etc/rotatelog/nginx' : config file for nginx
.nf
- /var/log/nginx/access.log
- /var/log/nginx/error.log
/bin/kill -USR1 `cat /run/nginx.pid`
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR cron (8),
.BR gzip (1),
.BR gunzip (1),

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Pierre Bazonnard
.fi
