.\" Copyright 1988,1990,1993,1996,2021 by Paul Vixie ("VIXIE")
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 by Internet Systems Consortium, Inc. ("ISC")
.\" Copyright (c) 1997,2000 by Internet Software Consortium, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND VIXIE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL VIXIE BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT
.\" OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" $Id: cron.8,v 1.8 2004/01/23 19:03:32 vixie Exp $
.\" 
.TH CRON 8 "8 July 2025"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
cron \- daemon to execute scheduled commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cron
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cron
should be started by the init process.
It is running in the foreground.
This can be useful when starting it out of init.
.PP
.I Cron
searches for /etc/crontab (see
.IR crontab (5)).
.I Cron
then wakes up every minute, examining all stored crontabs, checking each
command to see if it should be run in the current minute.
.PP
Additionally,
.I cron
checks each minute to see if the modtime on
.IR /etc/crontab )
has changed, and if it has,
.I cron
will reload this crontab file.  Thus
.I cron
need not be restarted whenever the crontab file is modified.
.SS Daylight Saving Time and other time changes
Local time changes of less than three hours, such as those caused
by the start or end of Daylight Saving Time, are handled specially.
This only applies to jobs that run at a specific time and jobs that
are run with a granularity greater than one hour.  Jobs that run
more frequently are scheduled normally.
.PP
If time has moved forward, those jobs that would have run in the
interval that has been skipped will be run immediately.
Conversely, if time has moved backward, care is taken to avoid running
jobs twice.
.PP
Time changes of more than 3 hours are considered to be corrections to
the clock or timezone, and the new time is used immediately.
.SH SIGNALS
On receipt of a \s-2SIGHUP\s+2, the cron daemon will close and reopen its
log file.  This is useful in scripts which rotate and age log files.  
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR crontab (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Pierre Bazonnard
.nf
