.\" Copyright (c) 1988,1990,1993,1994,2021 by Paul Vixie ("VIXIE")
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 by Internet Systems Consortium, Inc. ("ISC")
.\" Copyright (c) 1997,2000 by Internet Software Consortium, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND VIXIE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL VIXIE BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT
.\" OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" $Id: crontab.5,v 1.6 2004/01/23 19:03:33 vixie Exp $
.\" 
.TH CRONTAB 5 "8 July 2025"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
crontab \- tables for driving cron
.SH DESCRIPTION
A
.I crontab
file contains instructions to the
.IR cron (8)
daemon of the general form: ``run this command at this time on this date''.
Each user has their own crontab, and commands in any given crontab will be
executed as the user who owns the crontab.  Uucp and News will usually have
their own crontabs, eliminating the need for explicitly running
.IR su (1)
as part of a cron command.
.PP
Blank lines and leading spaces and tabs are ignored.  Lines whose first
non-space character is a pound-sign (#) are comments, and are ignored.
Note that comments are not allowed on the same line as cron commands, since
they will be taken to be part of the command.
.PP
Other lines are cron commands.  Each line has five time and date fields,
followed by a user name, followed by a command.  Commands are executed by
.IR cron (8)
when the minute, hour, and month of year fields match the current time,
.I and
when at least one of the two day fields (day of month, or day of week)
match the current time (see ``Note'' below).
.IR cron (8)
examines cron entries once every minute.
The time and date fields are:
.IP
.ta 1.5i
field	allowed values
.br
-----	--------------
.br
minute	0-59
.br
hour	0-23
.br
day of month	1-31 (or $, see below)
.br
month	0-12 (or names, see below)
.br
day of week	0-7 (0 or 7 is Sun, or use names)
.br
.PP
A field may be an asterisk (*), which always stands for ``first\-last''.
When specifying day of week, both day 0 and day 7 will be considered Sunday.
.PP
Ranges of numbers are allowed.  Ranges are two numbers separated
with a hyphen.  The specified range is inclusive.  For example,
8-11 for an ``hours'' entry specifies execution at hours 8, 9, 10
and 11.
Ranges can include "steps", so "1-9/2" is the same as "1,3,5,7,9".
.PP
Lists are allowed.  A list is a set of numbers (or ranges)
separated by commas.  Examples: ``1,2,5,9'', ``0-4,8-12''.
Lists and ranges are allowed to co-exist in the same field.
.PP
Step values can be used in conjunction with ranges.  Following
a range with ``/<number>'' specifies skips of the number's value
through the range.  For example, ``0-23/2'' can be used in the hours
field to specify command execution every other hour (the alternative
in the V7 standard is ``0,2,4,6,8,10,12,14,16,18,20,22'').  Steps are
also permitted after an asterisk, so if you want to say ``every two
hours'', just use ``*/2''.
.PP
Names can also be used for the ``month'' and ``day of week''
fields.  Use the first three letters of the particular
day or month (case doesn't matter).  Ranges of names are not allowed.
.PP
The ``sixth'' field is the user name who runs the command.
.PP
The rest of the line specifies the command to be run.
The entire command portion of the line, up to a newline or %
character, will be executed by /bin/sh.
Percent-signs (%) in the command, unless escaped with backslash
(\\), will be changed into newline characters, and all data
after the first % will be sent to the command as standard
input.
.PP
Note: The day of a command's execution can be specified by two
fields \(em day of month, and day of week.  If both fields are
restricted (i.e., are not *), the command will be run when
.I either
field matches the current time.  For example,
.br
``30 4 1,15 * 5''
would cause a command to be run at 4:30 am on the 1st and 15th of each
month, plus every Friday.
.PP
Note: The day-of-month can be given as $, in which case it matches
the last day of the current month.
.PP
Note: Names of months or days of the week can be specified by name.
.SH EXAMPLE CRON FILE
.nf
# run five minutes after midnight, every day
5 0 * * *       root  /bin/daily.job >> /tmp/out 2>&1
# run at 2:15pm on the first of every month bye user 'admin'
15 14 1 * *     admin /home/admin/bin/monthly
# run at 10 pm on weekdays, annoy Joe
0 22 * * 1-5	  root mail -s "It's 10pm" joe%Joe,%%Where are your kids?%
23 0-23/2 * * * root echo "run 23 minutes after midn, 2am, 4am ..., everyday"
5 4 * * sun     irc echo "run at 5 after 4 every sunday"
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR cron (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Pierre Bazonnard
.nf
